Homework 3: Lighting and Textures
Name: Gunabhiram Aruru

Description
-----------
This program creates a 3D textured scene using handmade OpenGL geometry.
The scene continues from my Homework 2 work and adds lighting, material
properties, texture mapping, and a moving positional light source.

Lighting and textures are enabled by default when the program starts.
The default view is an oblique overhead overview; press m to cycle view modes.

The scene includes:
- a textured ground plane
- handmade textured box-based objects
- a handmade cylinder-style object with manually assigned normals
- a handmade sloped/roof-style object with manually assigned normals
- a visible moving light marker

No GLU solid objects, GLUT solid objects, or imported model files are used
for the scene geometry. Objects are built manually using vertices, normals,
and texture coordinates.

Build Instructions
------------------
On Linux:
    make clean
    make

On macOS:
    make clean
    make

Run Instructions
----------------
    ./hw3

Controls
--------
Arrow keys        Change view angle
PageUp/PageDown   Zoom in/out or change scene dimension
a                 Toggle axes on/off
+ or =            Zoom in / decrease scene dimension or FOV
- or _            Zoom out / increase scene dimension or FOV
0                 Reset view and light to default
m                 Toggle projection mode
l                 Toggle lighting on/off
t                 Toggle textures on/off
r                 Pause/resume windmill blade rotation
Space             Pause/resume automatic light movement
,                 Move light angle backward manually
.                 Move light angle forward manually
[                 Lower light height
]                 Raise light height
q or ESC          Exit

Lighting
--------
The program uses fixed-pipeline OpenGL lighting with GL_LIGHT0 as a
positional light. The light moves around the scene automatically so that
the effect of changing light position is visible on the textured surfaces.
The light can also be paused and moved manually for debugging and grading.

Surface normals are manually assigned for all major objects. Box faces use
axis-aligned normals. The cylinder-style object uses radial side normals,
and the sloped object uses manually computed or explicitly defined outward
face normals.

Textures
--------
Textures are loaded from BMP files in the textures directory. Texture sizes
are power-of-two dimensions and kept small. Texture coordinates are assigned
manually to the scene geometry.

The texture environment uses GL_MODULATE so textures interact with lighting
instead of replacing the lighting result.

Texture files used:
- textures/grass.bmp
- textures/wood.bmp
- textures/path.bmp
- textures/metal.bmp
- textures/roof.bmp

The major visible scene objects are textured: ground, path, barn walls,
barn roof, windmill towers and blades, and fence posts and rails. Ground,
path, long rails, and large walls repeat their textures to avoid stretching.

The light marker, coordinate axes, ground guide lines, and on-screen text
are intentionally untextured. They are interface/debugging aids rather than
scene materials, so solid colors keep them clear and easy to read.

Code Reuse / References
-----------------------
- Reused camera navigation, projection switching, scene structure, and
  keyboard-control ideas from my Homework 2.
- Used class texture example ex14 patterns, especially BMP texture loading,
  glBindTexture, glTexCoord, and GL_MODULATE usage from its texture-mapping
  demonstration.
- Used class lighting example ex16 patterns for GL_LIGHT0, material settings,
  moving positional light, and surface normals from its lighting
  demonstration.
- I personally implemented the farm/windmill scene composition, texture
  assignment, handmade geometry normals, moving light integration, and final
  controls.
- AI assistance was used for review/debugging suggestions; all final code was
  tested, modified, and understood by me.

Approximate Time Spent
----------------------
Approximately 16 hours.
